Welcome back to Task number seven. In the previous task,
we evaluated the performance of the model using Google Sheets,
and in this task, we will evaluate other factors.
Price is just one factor, but there are other factors also
that are equally important.
So we're going to analyze those factors.
The model has given us a clear direction based on price, that
the stock price of Tesla is going to rise.
And it is correct in doing so because based on price only
Tesla has only gone up since last one year.
In fact, one year ago the price of Tesla was $70,
and today it's around $700. That's 10 times growth
in one year.
So there are other important factors also apart from price,
and now we're going to explore those factors.
So let's go to Yahoo Finance and search for Tesla.
We can always click on this, add a new tab button to open
a new tab and then search for "Yahoo finance Tesla".
So let's click on it.
So now we're going to analyze these parameters
and these statistics.
So the current price of Tesla is $676. It is $31 less than yesterday,
and it has dropped by almost 5%.
So the first thing is the data that we fed into the model.
Tesla had an amazing year in 2020 and probably the best
year so far.
Tesla had 1200 person growth, or 12 times growth.
The lowest price was $70 and the highest was $900.
So that's 12 times growth.
And even if you consider the current price of almost $700
that's still 1000% or 10 times growth.
Now, when we feed this kind of data with this kind
of historical return of 1000% or 1200%,
it is no wonder that Facebook Prophet is extremely bullish
and confident that the price will rise in the future.
But you can experiment with this. Try feeding the model
five years of historical data or just one month of historical
data and see what results do you get.
There was a recent dip in Tesla's price and right now,
it is rising again.
So those who bought Tesla at $70 are the real winners.
And if you buy Tesla $700 and expect the same kind of return
of 10 times and 12 times, I want to make it clear that
 it is not going to happen.
So that brings me to my second point, the market cap.
The market cap of Tesla is $665 billion.
Last year, Tesla had 12 times growth.
Now, if somebody expects Tesla to have the same kind
of growth in the future, it means the market cap of Tesla has
to go from $600 billion * 12 to $7 trillion which is equal
to the GDP of UK, France and India combined.
So it is impossible for Tesla to have same kind of growth
in the future.
Historical returns do not mean future return.
So if you buy Tesla at $700 and expect the same kind
of return that it had in 2020, I want to make it clear
it is not going to happen.
So that brings me to my third point the target: 
one year target estimate.
The one year target estimate for Tesla is $634 which is lower
than the current market price of $676.
Now, if this were $900 or $1000, that meant market analysts were
bullish and confident that the price of Tesla will rise.
But this is lower than the current price that means Market
and analysts are bearish.
That means they expect the price of Tesla to go down.
That means they believe Tesla is overvalued,
and they believe that by the end of this year or 
in next one year, the price of Tesla is going to come down.
So this is the third red signal.
The fourth Red Signal is "Beta five year monthly".
The Beta of Tesla is 2. 
Now. Beta is the measure of the stock's volatility in
relation to the overall market.
For example, S & P 500 index has a Beta of 1, and
individual stocks are ranked accordingly of how much they
deviate from the market.
A stock that swings more than the market has Beta above 1
like Tesla has a Beta of 2.
And if the stock deviates (swings) less than the market, it's Beta is
less than 1. For example, Netflix. (Netflix has beta less than 1)
Now having a higher Beta or
A Beta of 2(Tesla) is a red flag, but it is not necessarily a bad thing.
That means it is more risky, but also a higher reward potential,
especially for day traders who makes a profit off
volatility.
So if you're a day trader, I bet you love Tesla.
But if you are a long term investor, not so much.
Having a lot of volatility is not such a good thing.
But yes, day traders make a profit from high volatility.
That brings me to my fourth point.
That is PE ratio.
The PE ratio of Tesla is insanely high.
It's beyond 1000. High PE ratio suggests that investors expect
a high level of earnings in the future.
Now it depends if Tesla is able to deliver on the
expectations.
Tesla is believed to be a disruptive company.
Tesla is believed to be a futuristic company.
So that is the reason why PE ratio of Tesla is beyond 1000.
But that is insanely high.
For example, if you consider Tesla as an automobile company, 
the nearest rival of Tesla is Mercedes, which is
represented by Daimler Group. It has a PE of just 21.
Volkswagen has a PE of 15.
And if you consider Tesla as a tech company than Amazon has a
has a PE of 73, Google 35 and Netflix 86.
Now imagine Tesla has a PE of 1000. That is insanely high and
earning per share (EPS) is just $0.64. By comparison, Amazon has an EPS of $41,
Google has an EPS of $58.
But Tesla has an EPS of just $0.64.
So this is a red flag. The PE ratio of beyond 1000.
That is crazy. But this is a red flag. 
Market cap of $600 billion with so
less profit. This is a red flag.
One year target estimate at less than
current stock price. This is a red flag 
and the 52 week range.
So basically, Tesla has already made a lot of money for the
investors.
So probably it is not going to do so in the future, at least
not at this level.
So, considering everything and putting everything together,
Tesla seems to be a highly overvalued company.
Institutions have a huge short positions in Tesla.
which means they are basically and essentially betting against Tesla.
They believe the stock price of Tesla is highly inflated, and
it is going to come down.
So it all comes upon one factor.
Can Tesla deliver on its expectation?
Can Tesla deliver on its promises?
Can Tesla be the Google of electric cars like 
Google dominates the search engine market,
Can Tesla dominate the electric car market?
This is what we need to answer.
So this video is for educational purpose only,
 so I cannot make any suggestions.
But I have laid out all the facts before you.
So for the short term and for day traders, Tesla might be a good stock.
For longer term,
Not so much.
However it's your call.
So that's all for this task.
In this task, we explored other important technical factors,
and in the next task, we are going to automate the
forecasting process for other stocks.
See you in the next task.